---
title: "Addressing Remaining Poverty and Reducing Inequalities"
date: 2020-04-15T15:51:40+08:00
weight: 1
lead: "Human development and social inclusion, quality jobs, education and training, better health, social protection."
main_image: images/strategy-2030/poverty-and-reducing-inequalities.jpg
main_image_thumb: images/strategy-2030/poverty-and-reducing-inequalities-th.jpg
icon: images/strategy-2030/icn-poverty.svg
draft: false
---

Asia and the Pacific has seen tremendous growth over the years. From a measly 4.1% global gross domestic product (GDP) share in the 1960s, it now contributes 24%. Poverty incidence was drastically reduced from 68% in the 1980s to just about [6.9%](https://www.adb.org/sites/default/files/publication/549191/asias-journey-prosperity.pdf) in recent years. Human development indicators also improved dramatically: people lived longer (from 45 years life expectancy in 1960 to 71.8 years in 2018),  fewer infants died (from 137.8 to 26.2 deaths per 1,000 live births), and more kids went to school (mean years of schooling for those aged 20–24 years increased from 3.5 in 1960 to 8.9 in 2018). 

ADB has always supported Asia’s growth since its establishment in 1966. For over 50 years, it has helped the region address the various dimensions of poverty. These include participation, gender and development, social safeguards, and management of social risks. They are incorporated into ADB’s three major operational processes, namely country programming, project design, and [project implementation](https://www.adb.org/themes/social-development/overview). Its assistance has steadily increased throughout the years and have helped the region combat poverty in all its forms. In 2016–2018, ADB and its DMCs committed 64% of operations (loans and grants) on projects focused on inclusiveness, one- third on creating jobs and economic opportunities, and nearly 5% on developing resilience. These projects illustrate ADB’s growing responsiveness to Asia and the Pacific’s needs. They also reflect Strategy 2030, a shift in ADB’s development strategy, now firmly anchored on inclusive growth. 
 
This strategy emphasizes supporting high, sustainable growth to create and expand economic opportunities that people can easily access. This approach shows an important but often neglected facet of poverty: it is not all about income. Many people in Asia and the Pacific experience not only the lack of money, but also poor health, lack of education, food insecurity, and inadequate living [conditions](https://www.adb.org/sites/default/files/institutional-document/495951/strategy-2030-op1-poverty-inequalities.pdf). 

### Financing Partnerships at Work  

Partnerships have strengthened ADB’s efforts to address not just the income aspect of poverty, but of the many deprivations the poor experience on a daily basis. In 2019,  ADB and its various financing partners have implemented 148 projects, all ultimately aiming to reduce poverty.  

Several cofinanced projects explicitly address the non-income dimensions of poverty such as nine projects focused on improving access to education and nine projects on health for the marginalized. Over $58 billion were allotted to these projects, cofinanced by bilateral partners such as Australia, Japan and Korea, and through trust funds such as the Clean Energy Fund, Knowledge Partnership Fund, Sanitation Financing Partnership Trust Fund, and Urban Environmental Infrastructure Fund.  

Moreover, 17 cofinanced transport projects which began last year will also contribute to the poor’s increased access to economic opportunities. They will not only generate jobs during project implementation. Once done, these roads will make employment and markets accessible to the poor. Over $2.7 billion were cofinanced for transport projects last year, an increase from 2018’s $1.04 billion. 2019’s water and other infrastructure projects will also contribute to poverty reduction in many countries in Asia as they help make access to water and sanitation equitable. There were 17 cofinanced projects under this category, amounting to about $171.5 billion. 

### Closing the gaps 

The years of sustained growth in Asia may have been dynamic, but inequalities remain. While 95% of the region’s population live in middle-income countries, about 264 million people still live below the $1.90 per day poverty line, and around 1.1 billion live on less than $3.20 per [day](https://www.adb.org/sites/default/files/institutional-document/495951/strategy-2030-op1-poverty-inequalities.pdf).  Many governments in Asia have been spending less than $10 per person per year on health care, pushing people to increasing amounts  of out-of-pocket [health care spending](https://www.adb.org/sectors/health/issues/strengthening-health-systems-services). Access to education may have increased over the years, but job matching and skills enhancement continue to challenge many countries in Asia, as technological advancements continue to create skills and earning [gaps](https://www.adb.org/sites/default/files/publication/559616/ewp-606-education-skill-training.pdf).  The infrastructure tab for 45 developing Asian countries is pegged at more than [US$1.7 trillion](https://www.adb.org/news/op-ed/how-finance-asia-s-infrastructure-gap-bambang-susantono) per year. 

The need for better access to basic services, social protection, and jobs to alleviate poverty is now greater. It will be exacerbated by the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic, which is threatening not just the health of all people, but the growth of all developing nations. In Asia and the Pacific, recent estimates show that economic growth in developing Asia will be drastically cut this year before recovering in 2021. ADB projections reveal that the health crisis will result to a global impact of between $2.0 trillion–$4.1 trillion in losses, equal to between 2.3%–4.8% of global gross domestic product (GDP). Developing Asia will bear about 22% to 36% of these [losses](https://www.adb.org/publications/asian-development-outlook-2020-innovation-asia), with the poor hit the most. 

### Strategic Partnerships for the Future 

As the effects of the pandemic unfold before our eyes, it is clear that we can only effectively go through this crisis together. Partnerships are needed not just to accelerate the discovery of a cure or the creation of a vaccine, but to pool resources and expertise to lift the poorest who are breaking from the weight of the virus’s impact. One example is the [Regional Support to Address the Outbreak of Coronavirus Disease 2019 and Potential Outbreaks of Other Communicable Diseases](https://www.adb.org/projects/54079-001/main). This is a $44 million technical assistance package initiated by ADB, with support from the People’s Republic of China (PRC) Poverty Reduction and Regional Cooperation Fund and the Republic of Korea e-Asia and Knowledge Partnership Fund. This project makes available funds for all ADB developing member countries to help them update and run immediate pandemic response plans, improve future resilience, improve regional coordination to prevent disease outbreaks, and build long-lasting systems to address communicable diseases. 

As we grapple with the aftermath of this crisis, we must continue improving the poor’s access to economic opportunities. Partnerships can help in this regard, as exemplified by the [Skills for Competitiveness Project in Cambodia](https://www.adb.org/projects/50394-001/main#project-overview). This project supports the country’s thrust to modernize and transform its industrial structure from being labor-intensive to skills-driven by 2025. This project, cofinanced by ADB and the Cooperation Fund for Project Preparation in the Greater Mekong Subregion and in Other Specific Asian Countries, will lead to better technical training institutes, a competitive, inclusive workforce, and better job-matching in Cambodia.  

Asia’s huge infrastructure gap is also a major deterrent to the continued progress of the region. Sustainability as well as equality will be elusive dreams without infrastructure that connect people to basic services and economic opportunities. ADB is helping the region reach for these dreams through infrastructure projects such as the Malolos-Clark Railway Project (PFR 1) in the Philippines. Implemented through the collaboration of ADB and the Japan International Agency for Cooperation (JICA), the project will connect three regional centers, namely Clark in Central Luzon, the National Capital Region or Metro Manila, and Calamba, Laguna in Southern Luzon. It will decongest the country’s capital and link lagging regions with leading ones.  

As the global health crisis threatens to steal the headway Asia and the Pacific has struggled to achieve the past decades, the need to form stronger partnerships is critical. Stronger partnerships can help us effectively respond to the region’s immediate needs while safeguarding the shared progress we’ve achieved through the years.