---
title: "Building Strong Partnerships for Shared Progress"
date: 2020-05-05T21:38:26+08:00
lead: "Strong partnerships are at the core of the ADB [Strategy 2030](https://www.adb.org/documents/strategy-2030-prosperous-inclusive-resilient-sustainable-asia-pacific) to achieve a prosperous, inclusive, resilient, and sustainable Asia and the Pacific."
weight: 
draft: false
---

Through its work with partners, ADB can mobilize additional financial and technical resources for its support for its developing member countries (DMCs). Partnerships can also help improve coordination and reduce fragmentation of the support provided to DMCs. Finally, partnerships can help deliver outcomes that would not have been possible if either the ADB or the partner had operated in isolation.

The 2019 ADB Partnership Report highlights many exciting and impactful partnership examples. They illustrate and explain how partnership initiatives are delivering concrete impacts on the ground, and how they are aligned with Strategy 2030's seven operational priorities. The Report also provides a summary of the different types of financing partnerships that supported the ADB’s sovereign operations in 2019 through either project-specific cofinancing or through trust funds. The virtual format of the report allows the reader to explore which partners have new or ongoing partnerships with ADB in 2019, which sectors the partnerships focused on, and in which DMCs the projects are being implemented. 

Overall, sovereign cofinancing commitments reached $4.89 billion, adding to ADB sovereign operations worth $18.86 billion, including technical assistance.  That means that every dollar of ADB sovereign financing was accompanied by about 26 cents of cofinancing from partners. In 2019, ADB successfully collaborated with 33 different partners on 148 individual cofinancing operations that supported sovereign operations in 45 DMCs.

As the COVID-19 global pandemic unfolds, and new priorities emerge on top of the existing needs of the region&mdash;from bolstering  health systems of DMCs to setting up economic and social safeguards for the vulnerable sectors to stimulating economies that stalled or slowed down in the pandemic&mdash;ADB’s partnerships need to be all the stronger to continue working for a prosperous, inclusive, resilient, and sustainable Asia and the Pacific.

### Project-specific Cofinancing

[Project-specific cofinancing](./modalities/project-specific-cofinancing/) or PSC—that is, partnerships around individual ADB projects—make up the bulk of total ADB sovereign cofinancing. PSC comes in the forms of loan, grant for investment, and grant for technical assistance cofinancing. For PSCs, partners provide DMCs with funding that support the intended outcomes from ADB operations. The total volume of project-specific cofinancing in 2019 was $4.71 billion, divided into loan cofinancing at $4.52 billion and grant cofinancing at $191 million. For loan cofinancing, the year saw ADB's second largest-ever, single cofinancing operation, namely the collaboration with the [Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA)](./modalities/partnership-framework-arrangements/#jica) on the [Malolos-Clark Railway Project](https://www.adb.org/projects/52083-001/main#project-pds). The project is among ADB’s largest infrastructure projects to date, cofinanced by JICA in the amount just slightly over $2 billion.  

ADB's work with partners further expanded through grant-based project-specific cofinancing, in which partners provide dedicated funding to specific ADB projects. In 2019, there were 39 projects with grant-based project specific cofinancing, totaling $191 million, for both investment project and technical assistance. Of this, $127 million was for investment projects, while $63 million was for technical assistance operations. [Australia]({{< ref "australia.md" >}}) was the largest bilateral provider of grant-based cofinancing in 2019, supporting a total of 18 projects worth $83 million, including, for example, its $2.5 million contribution for the [Renewable Energy Project](https://www.adb.org/projects/49450-012/main#project-pds) in Tonga and its $4.5 million contribution for the [Northern Mountain Provinces Transport Connectivity](https://www.adb.org/projects/50098-002/main#project-pds) in Viet Nam. Among multilateral partners, the largest amounts were from the [Green Climate Fund](./modalities/global-funds/#gcf) and the [European Union](./partners/multilateral/european-union/). The year also saw gradual but consistent progress in terms of engaging with partners not so familiar with ADB. For instance, steady dialogue with [JPMorgan Chase Foundation](./partners/others/jp-morgan-chase-foundation/) culminated in the first-ever partnership focusing on [advancing women and trade](https://www.adb.org/projects/52214-001/main#project-pds), with JPMorgan committing a grant of $1.3 million.  

### Trust Funds

ADB continues to develop, facilitate, and implement partnerships through [trust funds](./modalities/trust-funds/) with specific thematic focus. As of 2019, ADB managed a total of 45 trust funds, and they allocated a total of $181 million to 2019 sovereign projects. The largest allocation in support of ADB’s sovereign operations were from the [Asia Pacific Project Preparation Facility](./modalities/trust-funds/multi-partner-trust-funds/#apppf), the [Japan Fund for Poverty Reduction](./modalities/trust-funds/single-partner-trust-funds/#jfpr), and the [Urban Climate Change Resilience Trust Fund](./modalities/financing-partnership-facilities/urban-financing-partnership-facility/#uccrtf). Two new trust funds were also established in 2019:

* [Ireland Trust Fund for Building Climate Change and Disaster Resilience in Small Island Developing States (SIDS)](https://www.adb.org/site/funds/funds/ireland-trust-fund-climate-change-disaster-resilience-sids), with a €12 million contribution from Ireland, to help SIDS manage disasters caused by natural hazards and the impacts of climate change.

* [ASEAN Australia Smart Cities Trust Fund](https://www.adb.org/site/funds/funds/asean-australia-smart-cities-fund) established under the [Urban Financing Partnership Facility](./modalities/financing-partnership-facilities/urban-financing-partnership-facility/) and with A$21.5 million contribution from [Australia]({{< ref "australia.md" >}}), aims to improve systems and governance among participating ASEAN cities through the adaptation and adoption of digital solutions.

<p class="dr-note">
All figures in the Partnership Report 2019 are based on commitments. As defined by ADB, “commitment” is the financing approved by ADB’s Board of Directors or Management for which the investment agreement has been signed by the borrower, recipient, or the investee company and ADB. It is the amount indicated in the investment agreement that may or may not be equal to the approved amount, depending on the exchange rate at the time of signing.
</p>