---
title: "Nonsovereign Cofinancing"
date: 2020-07-05T22:28:32+08:00
lead: "ADB sees partnerships with the private sector as crucial to achieving a prosperous, inclusive, resilient, and sustainable Asia and the Pacific region by 2030. It recognizes that the private sector is the largest contributor to economic development in the region. Under Strategy 2030, ADB has strengthened partnerships with the private sector and increasingly [mainstreamed into](https://www.adb.org/sites/default/files/institutional-document/558661/op-private-sector-operations-2019-2024.pdf) each Country Partnership Strategy comprehensive market assessments and inputs relevant to private sector development and private sector operations. By [2024](https://www.adb.org/sites/default/files/institutional-document/435391/strategy-2030-main-document.pdf), ADB envisions that its private sector operations will reach one-third of its operations in number."
footnote:
  - item: <sup><a name="1">1</a></sup> This amount excludes amounts mobilized after an OPPP advisory mandate.
  - item: <sup><a name="2">2</a></sup> Both private and public institutions provide this type of cofinancing. It is usually sourced from financial markets and priced at commercial terms <https://www.adb.org/site/cofinancing/what-is-cofinancing>
  - item: <sup><a name="3">3</a></sup> Cofinancing with multilateral agencies, and with bilateral agencies under ODA or sovereign recourse (https://www.adb.org/sites/default/files/institutionaldocument/31483/om-e1.pdf)
  - item: <sup><a name="4">4</a></sup> The cofinancing ratio is the ratio of long-term cofinancing to NSO borrowers divided by PSO OCR (net of risk transfers). Long-term cofinancing to NSO borrowers includes concessional funding, B-loans, parallel cofinancing, bonds and equity, risk transfers of ADB exposure to independent counterparties, the uncovered portion of loans and bonds guaranteed by ADB, and financing by third parties of projects that are closed following an OPPP advisory mandate.
  - item: <sup><a name="5">5</a></sup> ADB's Microfinance Risk Participation and Guarantee Program is a credit enhancement and a risk-allocation tool, designed to address a market gap and promote local currency lending to MFIs.
  - item: <sup><a name="6">6</a></sup> $861 million principal amount cover under risk transfer arrangements resulted in $649 million Net Direct Value Added Commercial Cofinancing credits, due to adjustments for counterparty risk on ADB’s counter parties, and adjustments for effective cover.
  - item: <sup><a name="7">7</a></sup> Principles of blended finance transactions include (i) a demonstrated need for blended finance and inability to proceed solely on a commercial basis; (ii) attraction of additional financing (private sector, direct foreign investment, others); (iii) interventions leading to improved commercial viability, not permanent subsidy; (iv) financing that tackles market failures and minimizes the risk of disrupting and/or distorting markets or crowding out private finance; and (v) use of public funds to support high standards of corporate governance, environmental impact, social inclusion, transparency, integrity, and disclosure.
weight: 
draft: false
---

Nonsovereign cofinancing amplifies the impact of ADB’S private sector operations by attracting financing from other parties. In 2019, ADB’s private sector operations gathered a total of $7 billion cofinancing for nonsovereign borrowers.<sup>[1](./feature/#1)</sup> About $3.6 billion came from short-term cofinancing (trade) and $3.4 billion from long-term cofinancing (infrastructure and other assets). About 95% of long-term cofinancing came from commercial cofinancing partners,<sup>[2](./feature/#2)</sup> and the rest from official sources.<sup>[3](./feature/#3)</sup>

{{< dr-sf-chart-nso-cofin >}}

The long-term cofinancing was against ADB’s own nonsovereign financing commitment of $2.36 billion, net of risk transfers. This shows that in 2019, every $1.00 of ADB’s own funds was matched by $1.50 in long-term cofinancing. By 2030, ADB aims to achieve $2.50 of long-term cofinancing for every $1.00 of ordinary capital resources deployed for private sector operations.<sup>[4](./feature/#4)</sup> Steady progress toward this goal is underway as ADB continues to work on projects with the private sector. In 2019, there were 38 nonsovereign projects signed in 2019 compared to 32 in [2018](https://www.adb.org/sites/default/files/institutional-document/558661/op-private-sector-operations-2019-2024.pdf) and 27 in [2017](https://www.adb.org/sites/default/files/institutional-document/558661/op-private-sector-operations-2019-2024.pdf). Nineteen of the nonsovereign projects in 2019 featured cofinancing from partners.

### Private Sector Cofinancing by Product

Cofinancing is a central tenet of private sector operations, and ADB relies on its full suite of financing products to meet the S2030 target and achieve scale. These cofinancing products—including lending instruments, credit enhancement products, risk transfers, blended finance structures, and funding platforms—can be categorized as short- or long-term.

{{< dr-sf-chart-svl >}}

#### Short-term Products

The $3.6 billion short-term cofinancing in 2019 was pooled using the following products:

<div class="dr-indent">

**Trade Finance Program (TFP).** The TFP fills market gaps for trade finance by providing guarantees and loans to banks to support trade. It works with over 200 banks to provide companies with the financial support they need to engage in import and export activities in Asia’s most challenging markets. A substantial portion of TFP’s portfolio supports small- and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), and many transactions occur either intra-regionally or between ADB’s developing member countries (DMCs). The program supports a wide range of transactions, from commodities and capital goods to medical supplies and consumer goods. In 2019, the TFP supported 4,832 transactions worth $5.4 billion, including $3.5 billion in cofinancing, which helped 4,069 SMEs. Financial institutions in the United Kingdom, Germany and Switzerland were the largest sources of cofinancing for TFP in 2019.

Cofinancing helps TFP leverage capital resources and credit limits by mobilizing private sector resources. It helps the TFP to more than double the amount of trade it supports at any one time under its current $2.1 billion program limit. TFP relies on funding support to accomplish its goals and the goals of the donors who provide that support. It works closely with key donors such as Australia’s Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade, which provides funding for efforts such as TFP’s gender initiatives and a study on global gaps in trade finance; the [Government of Luxembourg](./partners/bilateral/luxembourg/), which assists in gender initiatives and anti-money-laundering work; and the [Rockefeller Foundation](./partners/others/rockefeller-foundation/) and the governments of Switzerland and the United Kingdom, which support the upgrading of safeguard measures.

**Supply Chain Finance Program (SCFP).** The SCFP works with corporate and partner financial institutions to enhance access of SMEs to working capital. It provides supply chain finance by leveraging the strength of a larger corporate entity and incorporating the history of performance and interdependence of relationships with SMEs in a supply chain. Like the TFP, it relies on funding support to accomplish its goals and those of its donors. Since its inception, SCFP has supported more than 1,100 transactions with a volume of about $750 million, including cofinancing of $375 million. As of 30 June 2019, SCFP’s outstanding exposure was $10.8 million, half of which was cofinanced.

</div>

Partnering with other organizations allows TFP and the SCFP to multiply the effect of their actions, both in the transactions they support and the knowledge products they produce. Many DMCs need training and capacity building so that they can take part in the global trade finance system before they can fully benefit from the programs’ support. With the help of other organizations, TFP and SCFP provide the building blocks for partner banks to make the necessary upgrades. Examples of these partnerships include a certification program for anti-money laundering presented along with the [Association of Certified Anti-Money Laundering Specialists](https://www.acams.org/certificates/) and webinars on digitizing trade finance with the International Chamber of Commerce. Other partners include the Bankers Association for Finance & Trade, Financial Stability Board, Global Legal Identifier Foundation, Government of Singapore, International Finance Corporation, International Trade Factoring Association, SWIFT, Wolfsburg Group, Women’s Network, and the World Trade Organization

#### Long-term Products

The $3.4 billion worth of long-term cofinancing in 2019 was generated through the following products:

<div class="dr-indent">

**B-loan.** A loan product where ADB acts as lender of record while commercial lenders provide funding. It enables ADB to introduce new sources of financing to its clients, thereby mobilizing more funds for development projects. A B-loan is an intermediate product used in markets when lenders may not require partial risk guarantees but may not be ready to lend on a fully uncovered basis.

Participants in B-loan syndications are typically international and regional commercial banks lending cross-border in US dollars but may also include institutional investors and impact funds. ADB can assist borrowers in putting together lending groups, often in exchange for a mobilization fee. In 2019, ADB closed three B-loans for $182 million. A local currency product has been developed [(the local currency complementary financing scheme)](https://www.adb.org/sites/default/files/institutional-document/558661/op-private-sector-operations-2019-2024.pdf), which can be used to mobilize onshore finance in local currency. ADB has also expanded its staff resources and product expertise to increase B-loan operations.

**Parallel cofinancing.** Consists of loans, bonds, and equity simultaneously provided by other lenders or investors on commercial terms for the same project that ADB is financing. In this arrangement, ADB often acts as the anchor lender or investor to attract other lenders. ADB prioritizes cofinancing with commercial funding providers, such as commercial banks, but it also extensively cofinances with international public financial institution peers for transactions where commercial cofinancing is insufficient. An example of a successful partnership is ADB’s relationship with the Japan Bank for International Cooperation (JBIC). In 2019, ADB’s parallel cofinancing was projected to reach [$2.2 billion](https://www.adb.org/sites/default/files/institutional-document/558661/op-private-sector-operations-2019-2024.pdf).

For parallel cofinancing, ADB also participates in several initial public offerings as anchor and/or cornerstone investor for equity investments. This facilitates the book-building exercise and crowding in other direct equity investors. It similarly generates opportunities for fund managers and other limited partners to co-invest with ADB in target geographies and sectors.

ADB also supports capital market issuances, particularly green and climate bonds. This deepens local currency–denominated capital markets by attracting new institutional and financial investors. Green bonds lessen the reliance on banks as the primary source of financing in DMCs, provide new investment and savings products, and enhance transparency and corporate governance to support local currency–denominated capital markets. ADB’s value addition consists of its expertise in climate and environmental issues, the support ADB can provide to the issuer to obtain formal green bond certification, and the confidence that ADB creates in investors by acting as an anchor investor. In 2019, ADB facilitated the provision of certification services by existing commercial players through specialist advice and/or acted as anchor investor in two green bond issuances, mobilizing $310 million from third-party investors.

**Guarantees.** These diversify the range of funding options available to a client and mobilize private financial flows to DMCs. ADB extends both partial credit guarantees (PCGs) and partial risk guarantees (PRGs). ADB’s PCGs provide lenders and investors with comprehensive credit cover on the portion of the loan or bond guaranteed by ADB while its PRGs cover lenders against nonpayment by the borrower caused by political risk events only. From 2015 to 30 June 2019, ADB issued $1.22 billion in PCGs and PRGs. In 2019, ADB closed two PRGs in support of ADB B-loan participants funding infrastructure projects in [Indonesia](https://www.adb.org/projects/53037-001/main) and Myanmar. ADB’s [Micro Finance Guarantee and Risk Participation program](https://www.adb.org/what-we-do/private-sector-financing/microfinance-program)<sup>[5](./feature/#5)</sup> supported $274 million in commercial funding to micro finance institutions, generating $137 million guarantee cofinancing in 2019.

**Risk transfers.** Risk transfers are contracts between ADB and third parties such as insurance companies and banks, where ADB’s counterparty agrees to assume a portion of the credit risk in a loan or guarantee provided by ADB in exchange for payment of a premium. Risk transfers allow ADB to lend or guarantee amounts that are beyond ADB’s prudential limits or risk appetite without the need for the borrower to interact with additional lenders. In 2019, ADB transferred $861 million of its credit exposure on loans and guarantees to independent counterparties, thus mobilizing an equivalent amount of private finance.<sup>[6](./feature/#6)</sup>

Among MDBs, ADB has pioneered the [unfunded risk transfer product](https://www.adb.org/what-we-do/private-sector-financing/main) for private sector loans. Insurance companies provide a flexible and important distribution channel of private sector exposure, often at attractive terms, or where commercial banks lack credit appetite or local currency capabilities. Generally, however, ADB will prioritize funded distribution options to banks and investors, where markets are available, over unfunded risk transfers because of counterparty and documentation risks that are inherent to risk transfers.

**Official Cofinancing (third party funds and blended finance).** This refers to cofinancing with multilateral agencies, and with bilateral agencies under official development assistance or sovereign recourse. To extend the impact and effectiveness of private sector operations, ADB manages a series of third-party funds from official sources (such as the Japan International Cooperation Agency–funded [Leading Asia's Private Sector Infrastructure Fund](./modalities/trust-funds/single-partner-trust-funds/#lapsif)). These funds allow ADB to expand mobilization efforts, particularly in areas such as infrastructure and climate change.

In private sector operations, concessional finance is sometimes combined with market-based financing. Concessional finance refers to finance deployed on terms that are more favorable than those provided to market-based financing transactions. It may involve lower pricing, longer grace periods and/or tenors, subordination, sculpted repayment profiles, reduced security and/or collateral, and/or capped or collared returns. When combined with market-based financing, concessional financing is deployed as a “blended finance” product. By improving the commercial financiers’ risk and/or return profiles, blended finance transactions help crowd in private capital, de-risk investments, and bring projects to market that would not otherwise proceed in the absence of concessional financing. Combined with technical assistance (TA), blended finance structures can help build capacity with key actors to create better enabling environments for private sector investment. Common principles have been adopted by ADB and other development finance institutions, including additionality, crowding-in of private and/or public capital, commercial sustainability, reinforcement of markets, and promotion of high standards.<sup>[7](./feature/#7)</sup>

ADB manages $835 million worth of concessional financing through ten blended finance funds and facilities. Since 2012, ADB has signed 19 transactions using a blended finance approach. ADB resources of $908 million, combined with ADB-managed concessional capital of $377 million (from the [Clean Technology Fund](https://lnadbg6.adb.org/rsdd056p.nsf/print.xsp?documentId=AEF17BDFC355E2BD48257B5900346DEC&root=BASE&ptype=default) and the [Canadian Climate Fund for the Private Sector in Asia I](./modalities/financing-partnership-facilities/clean-energy-financing-partnership-facility/#cfps) and [II](./modalities/trust-funds/single-partner-trust-funds/#ccfpsa) and the [Leading Asia’s Private Infrastructure Fund](./modalities/trust-funds/single-partner-trust-funds/#lapsif)), have helped mobilize $2.3 billion in commercial financing and $1.5 billion in additional public financing. This has resulted in the development of projects with a total cost of over $5.1 billion.

</div>

{{< dr-sf-chart-blended >}}